SQS - Simple Queue Service

Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) is a web service that gives you access to message queues that store messages waiting to be processed

Use case - One common use case is a distributed, decoupled application whose multiple components and modules need to communicate with each other, but can’t do the same amount of work simultaneously. In this case, Amazon SQS message queues carry messages to be processed by the application running on Amazon EC2 instances.  

 1. List item

1\. Users submit videos to be transcoded to the website 2. The videos are stored in Amazon S3, and a request message is placed in an incoming Amazon SQS queue with a pointer to the video and to the target video format within the message. 3. Amazon EC2 instances reads the request message from the incoming queue, retrieves the video from Amazon S3 using the pointer, and transcodes the video into the target format 4. The converted video is put back into Amazon S3 and another response message is placed in another outgoing Amazon SQS queue with a pointer to the converted video.  
SQS is a pulled based system Visibility timeout - The visibility timeout is a period of time during which Amazon SQS prevents other consuming components from receiving and processing a message. The maximum visibility timeout for an Amazon SQS message is 12 hours.Default Visibility is 30 seconds. ChangeMessageVisibility timeout SQS polling - Amazon SQS long polling is a way to retrieve messages from your Amazon SQS queues. Maximum long polling is 20 seconds. While the regular short polling returns immediately, even if the message queue being polled is empty, long polling doesn’t return a response until a message arrives in the message queue, or the long poll times out.  
Amazon SQS message queues to receive notifications from Amazon SNS topics Amazon SNS is designed such that each message is delivered at least once to Amazon SQS standard queues. You can delete all messages in an Amazon SQS message queue using the PurgeQueue action. Standard Queues - Standard queues support a nearly unlimited number of transactions per second per API.A message is delivered at least once, but occasionally more than one copy of a message is delivered. Occasionally, messages might be delivered in an order different from which they were sent. FIFO Queues - By default, FIFO queues support up to 300 messages per second. FIFO queues can support up to 3,000 messages per second.A message is delivered once and remains available until a consumer processes and deletes it. Duplicates aren't introduced into the queue. The order in which messages are sent and received is strictly preserved (i.e. First-In-First-Out). FIFO queues are designed to never introduce duplicate messages Cannot convert existing standard queue to a FIFO queue  
Amazon SQS message retention period to a value from 1 minute to 14 days. The default is 4 days. Once the message retention limit is reached, your messages are automatically deleted. Set this message size limit to a value between 1,024 bytes (1 KB), and 262,144 bytes (256 KB) Amazon SQS messages can contain up to 256 KB of text data, including XML, JSON and unformatted text Queue names are limited to 80 characters You can create any number of message queues. No. Each Amazon SQS message queue is independent within each region Amazon SQS VS Amazon Kinesis Streams : Kinesis Allows multiple applications to consume the same stream concurrently The cost of Amazon SQS is calculated per request, plus data transfer charges for data transferred out of Amazon SQS SQS are billed in 64KB chunks SQS Fanning out- Create SNS topic and subscribe multiple queue. When a message is sent to SNS topic, the message will be fanned out to the SQS queues
